Feb 19, 2002	1	2	3	0	text1	1	2	3	text2	1	2	3	text3	text4	text5	text5b	2	text6	text7	text7b	text8a	text8b	text8c	text9	text10	8	text12	1	text13	sedl-2-157.sedl.org 198.214.140.157
Feb 19, 2002	0	0	0	0		0	0	0	0	0	0	0														0				sedl-2-157.sedl.org 198.214.140.157
Feb 19, 2002	0	0	0	0		0	0	0	0	0	0	0														0				sedl-2-157.sedl.org 198.214.140.157
Feb 19, 2002	6	4	3	5		2	4	2	0	0	0	0		Meetings with the CEO.	1. To be given a task, to be assigned 5 or more unrelated/unfocused individuals, and told in only general terms what is expected.  	1. More attention and detail given to assignments and closer monitoring of the process by either the COO or directors.  Thoughtful assignment of committees to compliment working styles would also alleviate the problems.	2	The how depends on the circumstances.	I would not think all would.  But either complex or ones of a unique nature would benefit with face-to-face meetings.		Conversations with COO and directors and opportunities for dialogue as the process/product is forming.	Same as above.	Most issues should be resolved at this stage.	Limited feedback would be expected.	I could not provide such input.  As I seemed to be assigned rather randomly, a more specific choice of reviewers to meet the QA needs would prove more beneficial.	0	  	1		dialin-236.sedl.org 198.213.9.236
Feb 19, 2002	0	0	0	0		0	0	0	0	5	5	5		The meetings with the developers have been very informative and productive.	Providing the written report and getting it signed by everyone, etc. has been difficult at times.		1		Yes.  Even in the early stages, I've learned quite a bit from the meetings and feel that the QA team asked pertinent questions that helped the developers think about their product in a diffferent way.						No	7	Oh no! not again!	2	No	dialin-231.sedl.org 198.213.9.231
Feb 20, 2002	5	5	5	5		3	3	4	0	2	4	5		Having external reviewers who know the subject area	The collaboration of the COO and reviewers feedback to the developers	Be sure the COO's comments are available prior to the QA team's request for review	2	E-mail or phone message	Not necessarily if there is limited questions or changes needed	e-mails or phone	philosophical exchange of ideas	readibility, clarity for the audience, suggestions for additions or deletions of content	readibility, clarity	readability, clarity, understanding	Yes, to choose those most knowledgeable in the area	6	how will I fit this into my schedule	2		sedl-2-123.sedl.org 198.214.140.123
Feb 20, 2002	4	4	4	4		3	3	3	0	5	5	5					2	Informal communication, email	No	see above						8				sedl-2-104.sedl.org 198.214.140.104
Feb 20, 2002	5	5	4	5		3	3	3	0	4	5	5		The feedback from all entities has been generally helpful.	Balancing the review team's feedback with that of the COO when such feedback differ.	Staying in communication with the COO every step of the way.	2	Yes, if the changes substantially alter the product/document.  No if the changes are minor.	No.  Travel commitments make such meetings difficult.  	Everyone seems to be sensitive to the need for timely feedback  and is willing to provide feedback by alternative means (notes or telephone.)	As stated in current guidelines	As stated in current guidelines	As stated in current guidelines	Two or three observations from their area of expertise that relates to the product under review.	Yes--in order to tap particular expertise of the staff.  This would require, of course, some mechanism  for sharing information on resident expertise and some way not to overload individual staff members.	9	Concern, pressure	2	I am not dissatisfied with theQA process as it is.  My primary concern is related to the  need for advanced planning (on the developer side) commitment of time (on the review side).	sedl-2-170.sedl.org 198.214.140.170
Feb 20, 2002	0	0	0	0	test by brian	0	0	0	0	0	0	0														0				sedl-2-157.sedl.org 198.214.140.157
Feb 20, 2002	0	0	0	0	test 2 by brian	0	0	0	0	0	0	0														0				sedl-2-157.sedl.org 198.214.140.157
Feb 21, 2002	0	0	0	0	I have not submitted any products.	0	0	0	Seen above	2	2	1	The COO role is still unclear in terms of the weight of her feedback versus the review team		See above		1		No. Too hard to schedule	Email 	Not sure since I really have not been throught this process - I would only be guessing			Understanding of what is being communicated	Does not matter.	0	powerlessness	1		sedl-3-121.sedl.org 198.214.141.121
Feb 22, 2002	5	4	4	5		3	3	0	0	5	5	6		Review team-internal discussions that take place before meeting with the developers.  Meetings with developers in which both parties have an opportunity to learn from each other.	Some of the final meetings that involve Joan have been difficult, because her comments as COO and the person who makes a final decision on the product before sending it to OERI seem to outweigh others.  Also, incorporating the feedback from external reviewers has not always worked smoothly; it seems to be a problem of resolving potential differences in feedback across the various sources.	Getting Joan involved early on in the development process was supposed to help in this area, and maybe it has -- but the final meeting can still sometimes be problematic.	1		Yes.  The benefits resulting from face-to-face meetings far outweigh any possible inconvenience presented by trying to schedule and conduct them.		Broad, general feedback -- examples: is there a need for this product?  does what is being proposed seem to meet the need?  is the general idea reasonable?  what else should be considered that has not been?	Feeback specific to the product at this stage of development, as well as "advice" on what might need to be re-thought in the final development stages. 	By this point, feedback should be minor at best, targeted at fine-tuning something that has previously been agreed to be appropriate.	Awareness of things that don't readily make sense to a "cold reviewer" as opposed to someone who has experience in or knowledge of the area being addressed -- or indications that the product makes assumptions about prior knowledge that may not be justified in the audience at large.	Not particularly.  A product should be understable to (though possibly not immediately usable by) almost any reviewer.	8	Concern for the time that the process will likely take, as well as possible difficulties in scheduling.	2	I like the fact that the documentation database makes it relatively quick and easy to provide input to the review process, and at the same time to document it for others to look at.	sedl-3-156.sedl.org 198.214.141.156
Feb 22, 2002	6	2	4	3	At times feedback is constructive and at times it is not. 	4	3	3	0	4	4	6	The coordination of all of those involved is alway a bit awkward. It is not the developers that make this awkwardness--it is figuring out the whens and who is available. 	Putting Joan's feedback into the group rather than as an opposing factor is good. It would be better if reviewer and Joan's feedback could be done together at all stages.	When reviewers' feedback conflicts with Joan's, that is awkward.     Though the numbers in the group are small, it is still very difficult to get all who need to be involved together at one time.    The time needed to review, organize feedback, give feedback and then write is tough	Put Joan into all meetings at all stages.    On getting the team togehter, that is good question!!	2	If significant-- second review or a notice to sign off that new changes are not inconsistent with review.	No, if it is not warrented in order to explain remarks or ask questions.	Email.     	There is not a most appropriate. There is a does it fit the need.	same	same	Does this make sense to someone who does not have the knowledge base? Does the approach, concept, work or whatever seem logical.	No, staff is good.	9	As a reviewer, where can time be realocated? How can I fit it in?     As a developer, just how painful is this about to be???    In the next piece, I didn't answer -- it can go either way. 		Thanks for asking.	sedl-2-109.sedl.org 198.214.140.109
Feb 25, 2002	6	3	4	5	Virtually all products and processes handled through QA have improved the final outcome.	3	3	2	Comments and suggestions have been directed from a negative stance, with litle clarity of what was expected.  	4	3	5		Having a directed experience to explain the intent and goals of a product.  Using comments from individuals not directly involved with a product being developed produces a good "critical friend" experience and improves the end product.	There have been times when the original expectation for what the end result is to be has apparently not been understood.  Particularly comments from the COO interpreted as meaning the product is not meeting a particular set of expectations.  The expectations were not clearly understood by the developers who were left to set their own goals.	Have an original meeting with QA, COO, developer(s) to clarify the expectation for the product.	2	Electronically if possible.	No, as more time is spent traveling face to face meetings slow down the time of development. 	Use of electronic meetings or communication, in particular during concept and early development and to handle the frequent changes. 	Is the concept interpreted the same by all parties involved?  How do we insure the expectations are the same?	What strengths are observed, with specific reasons.  What is not clear, does not seem to tie to orignal expectations.  Ideas for improving.	Are we still together on the expectations.	Does the format make sense to the reviewer?  Being a "critical friend" by asking probing questions to make sure they understand the goal of the product/paper.	No, a random selection of individuals can provide any needed assistance/critique.	8	Aggravation	1		sedl-2-209.sedl.org 198.214.140.209
Feb 26, 2002	5	3	4	4		2	3	0	0	4	3	4		Good leadership of review teams is essential. Being able to agree on dates for meeting is also important.	Some meetings were dreadful in tone and detail.  Watching the developers and Joan revise something at the final stage that should have been revised at an earlier stage was a bit time consuming.		1				Whether an idea makes sense, if other related issues should be included or deleted.			A thorough reading, connections they make with what is reviewed and other work they might know.  The perspective of a non-expert can be useful in gauging the understandability of a product.	Me personallyl, no.  But if others think it is important for them to have input, that would be fine.  	6	Slight dread.			sedl-2-203.sedl.org 198.214.140.203
Feb 27, 2002	4	3	3	4		2	2	3	0	5	5	5					1									6	Resignation	1		sedl-3-124.sedl.org 198.214.141.124
Feb 28, 2002	4	3	2	4	Based on my experience developing the first Annual Evaluation Report, it seems that there was a real distinction between the QA review team and Joan.  For the most part (and as much as I can remember), we did not get much substantive feedback from the review team; rather Joan was the primary person we responded to.  I don't know that I can say the QA process improved the product because it wasn't the QA process that helped us reach the final outcome but the rather our coming to an understanding of what Joan wanted the report to be that changed the report most dramatically.  Nevertheless, we welcomed the minimal input that the review team did provide.  I marked "somewhat disagree" about the experience being pleasant, not because of the QA process itself, but because of Joan's initial feedback and her tendency toward sarcasm in her red-inked comments.  In addition, it was somewhat unpleasant to go through rounds and rounds of revising.  I think that if we had been given a more clearly articulated vision or understanding of what the report was supposed to be from the start, we could have avoided the numerous iterations that were done.  I also marked "disagree" about the process working smoothly because I felt that the review team felt frustrated by all the time the spent reviewing the document, only to have their comments either disregarded or deemed unimportant.  In essence, we could have simply worked with Joan and not wasted the other team member's time.  (Although I do not advocate that as a way to resolve the problem.)	2	3	0	Why didn't we have any external reviewers for our Annual Evaluation Report?      (Joan's comments were useful, I guess, but tended to have an unpleasant tone.)	0	0	0	did not review	I enjoyed meeting with people from the different areas of work to get their feedback and fresh perspective.	I felt bad that the review team spent a considerable amount of time reviewing our document but because Joan had the final say, their feedback was not necessary.	Get more concensus about the product and its desired outcome at the conceptual stage, keeping team members posted regularly about any changes.	2	email  informal meetings  phone	Not necessarily.  I think that documents could be circulated via email if clear consensus was established at the conceptual stage and if everyone is kept apprised of any changes were made.		I would like to hear review team member's thoughts on possibilities for a proposed product/document and consider all the options, pitfalls, possibilities, etc.  I would also like to get clear agreement from Joan at this stage.	I think it might be helpful for a review team to give more practical feedback about the product as it becomes more fleshed out and the details are worked out (as opposed to the more abstract conceptual stage when it is more difficult to consider these things).	it seems that at the final stage the substantive issues would be taken care of and the type of feedback that would be most helpful is on polishing/clarifying/checking for continuity/etc.	a fresh perspective; maybe taking a big picture look at the document and consider whether it is appropriate for audiences with little expertise as well	yes, only because as a developer I know who I think will give the most useful/productive feedback based on what I know about their background	2	I actually feel quite "neutral" toward the process because I have only had the one document (Annual Evaluation Report) go through and it was only at the final stage.  		The question about what percentage of suggestions were incorporated was actually difficult because I'm not sure if Joan is considered part of the internal review team.  I indicated 10% because I felt we only incorporated a rather small amount of suggestions from the review team (excluding Joan).	sedl-2-222.sedl.org 198.214.140.222
Feb 28, 2002	4	2	1	4	The QA process is too cumbersome and slow.  Feedback often came from individual members of the team, rather than from the team as a whole, so as a developer, I had to respond to a lot of individual, picky issues.  Also, the QA timeline is unreasonable.  I have had products under QA review for months -- somebody must be responsible for making sure that products move through the process quickly.	1	1	3	Really, the internal team nit-picked and word-smithed.  They all admitted they lacked content knowledge to be able to comment intelligently on the products being developed.  Mostly, the reveiew team and the COO made sure that the developers responded appropriately to the comments made by the external reviewer.	3	4	5	On the reviewer's end, we've had some problems with leadership as well.  We've had some miscommunications, and we've had some difficulty giving clear feedback AS A TEAM (rather than as individuals).	The external reviewer has been the best source of content information.  Joan's feedback has always been very timely.	The internal teams seem to be somewhat confused about what their role in the QA process is.  I've mentioned some of the reasons for this confusion, but another that I haven't mentioned stems from the separate "but equal" feedback that is given from Joan and from the QA review team.  That is adding to the problem of "too many cooks spoiling the broth."	Clearly define roles.  Make somebody responsible for creating and sticking to a timeline.  Joan's feedback should be given after, and in response to, the review team's feedback.  	2	First of all, I think that a clearly defined timeline would alleviate this problem -- if everybody sticks to a clearly defined development timeline, there will be fewer opportunities for product/document changes.  Secondly, there should be one person on the development team (a "primary developer") who is responsible for communicating changes in the planned development process with the review team, the COO, and the external reviewer.	No.  The form of feedback should be decided by the development team and the review team.  Not all products need face-to-face feedback at every stage of the process.  FURTHERMORE, not every product should have to go through every stage of the process.  Three stages are excessive for some products.	e-mail and the QA review form should be sufficient for simple products that require very little feedback at a particular stage of the development.	Has the development team set out realistic goals?  Could the product, as it is described, achieve the purpose and outcomes, as they are described?	Is the development team on track for developing the product that was described in the conceptual stage?  Does it still look like it will achieve the specified outcomes?	Has the development team developed the product that we all agreed to develop?  Given the feedback at the conceptual, and early development stages, is this the product that developers promised?  This is NOT the time to give conceptual feedback, nor is this the time to wordsmith the document.	That depends on the product.  Some products are not developed for naive readers -- the target audience consists of people who have relevant backgrounds in the area.  In that case, a naive reviewer would understandably be a bit confused by the content.  Other products are intended for naive target audiences -- when that is the case, the naive reviewer can provide valuable feedback (namely, does this product work for a naive target audience).  Primarily, what I want from the reviewers is a critique of the feasibility of the product (can we create this product, and will this product have the desired outcomes?), and I want the reviewers to try to insure that the developers are creating a product that achieves their own stated goals.	I would like to be able to select one member of the team.  I think it is good to have two or three members of the review team who are randomly selected, but I would also like to insure that somebody with a bit of relevant knowledge and background is there to help the review team focus on useful feedback.	9	Is ennui an emotion?	1	It sucks.  In our division, we are actively avoiding putting products through QA.  We're "redefining" products that have already gone through QA, or we're calling new products "addendums" to existing products so we can avoid going through the quagmire of QA.  I don't think that is in keeping with the spirit of QA, but frankly, I also don't think that the existing QA process is what was QA was meant to be.	sedl-3-122.sedl.org 198.214.141.122
Feb 28, 2002	0	1	2	0	There appeared to be evolving expectations for the product/result. So it is hard to say if the product was improved since there were very vague expectations since  its conception.    	4	0	4	Internal Review Team - very helpful feedback - yet not used very effectively  External Reviewers - very helpful feedback - yet not  used very effectively   COO - feedback was what was important to product 	2	2	0	The QA review process was very different from what is found on the web.    QA review process appears to be evolving on a weekly basis for the product.	The web based information was clear, understandable, and  appeared to be a well designed way for the whole process to work.	The application of the QA review process based on what  my program manager said was needed, when, and who would do it.  	Are there management issues around the QA process and what it applies to and when it is suppose to be used?	2	??? 	???	???	making sure that records are kept for the development of the instrument    	attempting to link theory, previous peer reviewed research articles in top journals, common sense, and field knowledge	matching espectations for instrument with use in the field (who will use it, for what purpose, etc.)	Field based thoughts, common sense, face validity reactions, general applications - thoughts/ideas, and  honest feeback	I am not sure	2	In the beginning it sounded like a professional way to handle the requirements for production of an instrument.  Now when I hear QA review I think - is the use of internal and external reviewers time well spent doing a  review?	1	No - BUT PLEASE KEEP THESE COMMENTS CONFIDENTIAL AND WORDED SO THAT THEY ARE NOT TRACEABLE TO ME.  THANKS.    	sedl-2-092.sedl.org 198.214.140.92
Feb 28, 2002	0	0	0	0		0	0	0	0	6	6	6	This process increased my understanding of the policy work. 	The conversations at different stages of the process, and assigning a person to coordinate the work.	The most difficult is not having the knowledge or experience base to provide constructive feedback that would lead to improvements. 	Insure that at least one of the QA reviewers has some knowledge or experience with the topic.	1		No. Meetings should occur when feedback will improve the outcome. Not all stages require this level of input.							11	Commitment and energy.	2	No.	brown.dana.utexas.edu 129.116.68.179
Feb 28, 2002	4	2	2	4		2	3	2	0	2	2	4		As a reviewer: none  As a developer: some of our conversations were good	What are the different aspects you are talking about?		1		No, that is a stupid wast of our time 	What is wrong with written communication??	none, this stage should only involve the COO.  As it stands now it is a complete wast of time	Primarily this is good because it gives the review team a heads up.  Their feedback isnever that useful anyway	What are the different types of feedback you are talking about?  The categories; audience, dissemination, outcomes???   It is stupid to ask the QA team to review these types of things, most of them are inherent in our REL scope of work and can not be changed	Layout, marketing	Not if it adds to an already lengthy process	7	dread	1	Only primary deliverables should be accountable for the full review process.  Other items should go through an abbreviated process.  Often the developers are at the mercy of incompetent QA team leaders who do not schedule the meetings in a timely manner.  Someone should oversee this.	sedl-2-214.sedl.org 198.214.140.214
Feb 28, 2002	4	4	4	5		3	4	4	0	5	5	6		The opportunity for have everyone together to hear the same conversation.  Developers, reviewers, and COO	The first stage of a written short summary to describe the product/process still needed more explaination.	That problem seems to have been taken care of -- which means more writing has been included.  	2	Only if change has major impact on product/action -- a note to the reviewers 	No, some can be done through written response		  a list of questions to consider --    Have you thought about how audience will use    Good match with aduience needs     Etc. 	A presentation to everyone about both short term and long term context -- how does this piece fit into the over all work of the group.	again, connecting all pieces of the work.	 Given the context of the need and product/action goal.      Not expert reviewer can help with  questions like does this make sense.  Do you understand what we are trying to do.  etc.	 Yes,      that would all developer to pick members of the team that provide a prespective that they feel is important.	10		2		sedl-2-098.sedl.org 198.214.140.98
Feb 28, 2002	6	5	5	6	 Coordinating time for review meetings was sometimes difficult. Also we found that we never really submitted products in a "conceptual" phase as defined by QA. Our conceptual pieces looked more like how the "early design" phase is described and the early design looked more like a rough draft of the final product. The third QA submission was a revised draft.This progression seemed to work better for us and for our reviewers.	4	4	4	Both internal and external reviewers provided helpful input. Internal reviewers and COO sometimes lacked specific content knowledge, but provided thoughful reviews and helpful questions that helped us check to make sure our goals were clear, our products matched our goals, and the goals were relevant to our audiences and the larger scope of work. External reviewers provided an excellent source for expert content knowledge.	2	2	4		Nance was always supportive and helpful.	Review of the Task 1 site entry tools was a long and confused process. There was time pressure to get the tool completed, it was never clear who the developer was (or this changed over time), the conceptualization of the product kept evolving even after a final draft was submitted. As a reviewer I felt like a hoop that the developers wanted to get through rather than a source of constructive imput.    Review of the ES annual report did not have a conceptual or early draft stage and the review process was pressured by time limitations.	Make sure developers build review time into the development process. It's helpful for developers to communicate what areas they are having trouble with or would like more focused attention by reviewers. 	2	It depends on the scope of change and when it occurs. If the product undergoes a big change (e.g. is recocnceptualized between early design and final draft) reviewers should see the new design before the final draft. A potential mechanism is adding a 4th stage to the review proces.	More minor products or early stages of review may not need a meeting if reviewers do not have major questions or comments. Reviewers should decide whether they need a face-to-face meeting and developers can also request a meeting if they prefer.	Email exchanges and everyone reading the comments on the QA documentation form.	Review for clear goal/purpose and audience. Check for feasibility to accomplish product in given timeline. Check for relevance for audience and to broader scope of work. Observations regarding dissemination plan.	Does early draft align with stated goal/purpose? Is the proposed format for the product appropriate for the goal and the audience? Are there topics/areas that seem to be missing? 	Does final draft align with what was planned? Does product communicate clearly for intended audience, is information relevant? Missing or extraneous information? 	Does the product have internal coherency, consistency, and relevancy?	No, teams have always been great.	6	As a reviewer, weariness.  As a developer, gratitude.	1	As developers we make a strong effort to make sure adequate time is planned for QA reviews. The pacing of our work allows us to do this.	sedl-3-134.sedl.org 198.214.141.134
Feb 28, 2002	4	2	2	3	Since Joan had final word on each product, improvement varied because of her limited knowledge in some areas.   Also it was not a pleasant experience because her input overrode all others even though they had more knowledge/skill about an area.	3	2	3	Review by external reviewers was very useful if they were experts in the appropriate field.	1	2	5	As a member of the QA team, we provided constructive feedback, however, this feedback had very limited use by the developers because Joan asked that the product be overhauled.  Consequently, her decision overrode ours.	Constructive feedback provided by internal review team and experts in the field were very helpful.  	Getting the Coo's feedback was of limited benefit because in most cases, she did not have the background knowledge to be making the final decisions about a product.  For example, she has never worked in the classroom as a teacher, principal and/or superintendent and has little to no training and knowledge in school administration.  She also had limited to little knowledge about how to work with non-mainstream schools, students, and communities. 	The COO should only be one voice of many that review and provide feedback on a product.  Her vote should not override others, especially because others have more knowledge, skills, and training in areas that she does not. 	2	I think this depends on what the changes are, the magnitude, and number of changes.  If its small changes then probably not because these could be discussed in the review.  If they're large changes, then yes the reviewers should be made aware and given a revised copy so that they are reviewing the correct version. Otherwise, their feedback will be useless. 	I think this depends on the size, complexity, type of product and the stage of review.  If it is the final review after several previous reviews and it is not a huge complex document, people could give feedback via e-mail or on the paper itself and give to the developers.	See above box	A discussion of the concepts presented and any concerns/issues reviewers think may be a problem	Review structure, organization, flow of ideas, major writing flaws, documentation, etc.	Is the paper written clearly and conveys what was intended at conceptual and early development stage.  Is the writing politically correct and does not offend anyone?	The product should make sense and be well documented if needed.  These are educated but uninformed readers.  	Yes, particularly, if they have little to no expertise/knowledge in my area.	10	It depends on which QA teams you're talking about.  It the last contract period, I reviewed Shirley's products and it was for the most part a pleasant experience working with them.  However, all of the products had been reviewed by Joan first.  This contract period I did two rounds for evaluation and the word "DREAD" comes to mind because Joan CONTROLLED these two experiences.  To be hones I'm thrilled I not doing these any more because of the time it takes and the fact that my feedback had little value since Joans was the overriding vote.	1	Eliminate the COO from the QA process because her vote will never be equal to other SEDL staff members for two reasons.  First she has control issues--in other words, she believes she is always right and is the only one who knows how to do things here at SEDL, regardless of what the task/area is.  Second, since other SEDL staff members are unwilling to challenge her opinion because they are scare of retaliation, her vote will always be the overriding one.  I believe that SEDL and Dana staff are knowledgeable about their fields and when they work together their combined knowledge bases and skills  produce excellent products.  Much more so that if they are produced and controlled by one person, the COO	sedl-2-223.sedl.org 198.214.140.223
Feb 28, 2002	5	5	5	5		3	3	3	0	5	5	5					2									0				sedl-adsl-fw.sedl.org 198.214.140.252
Mar 1, 2002	5	5	4	5		3	0	0	0	5	5	6		Learning about other projects and work has been most helpful.	Turn around time has been most difficult. Sometimes there is not enough time to really do a through review and reflect on suggestioins.		2	By altering what changes were made through a quick e-mail message. After all reviewers spend time in going over th product/document, etc.								6		2		jnet4.sedl.org 198.214.141.20
Mar 5, 2002	4	4	4	5		3	2	2	0	5	4	6		Peer review is always helpful, as it provides a "fresh" eye to the work.  	COO involvement often made it difficult, both as a developer and a reviewer, because the information was frequently conflicting or disconnected.  As a developer, it was hard to know which to pay more attention to...do you listen to the COO comments and make suggested changes b/c of the leadership hierarchy (thus making us question the purpose for QA teams), or do you listen to the reviewers comments and make those changes b/c that is the purpose of the QA review?  Often, the COO comments were followed up on, and the QA team review was just a step in the process we had to follow...not the way it should be, I think. 	If the COO is going to be as deeply involved in each product in the lab as she has been in the past, I think it would help the developers if she sat on the QA team throughout the process.  That way, her comments would be heard as part of the team review, not as separate and possibly conflicting.  In this way, the QA teams could be more clear about lab expectations, and possibly even learn from the experience of being a reviewer (gasp!), rather than just feel that their time is wasted b/c whatever they say is going to be overruled by the COO's comments anyway.  However, for the COO to be that involved, that will take a LOT of her time....  It could feasibly become her primary role.	2	I think an email to the QA team would be helpful.  I don't think it's necessary for things like editing, but for formatting and/or content changes, I think it's critical that the team be apprised.  That provides the information needed for a more useful review of the product.	Face-to-face meetings are difficult with so much travel, but I think we should try to keep them.  If there are members of the team who cannot meet, I have found that written comments are helpful and can be discussed during the meeting.  If a team member is away but can join in on a conference call, that could work, too.  Face-to-face really allows a more collaborative dialogue.	The only suggestion would be if some members of the review team were out...they could call in, if possible, or leave written comments with the lead.	Worthiness of the planned product; brainstorming ideas for format and content; helping to identify appropriate audience and voice; thinking of potential problems/challenges for the product.	Keeping developers on track with what was proposed; think through potential problem areas; content-specific feedback.	How to make it "shine"; how to market it to the audience; where to go from here.	Whether or not it makes sense; if it's reader-friendly, informative, well-supported; identification of questions or concerns from someone who is NOT immersed in the work.	Boy, would that be hard to manage!  But I do think it would be helpful...you might get a better "sampling" of expertise within the lab, well-represented...but I can imaging that a few people would be called on all the time, and that would be too difficult.	6	Ugh.	1	I have to say, that on question #11, that I have guessed.  As a member of a review team, I have rarely, if ever, seen the finished product.  On one in particular that I remember, it was only after the product was published/printed that I saw it, realizing that maybe 10% of the suggestions we made were incorporated.  That really seemed like it was a waste of time.    As a developer, I know that the COO comments are more frequently incorporated than the review team's (probably more like a 80% versus 20% comparison).  That is not right...but it's the way things have happened in the past.	sedl-3-086.sedl.org 198.214.141.86
Mar 5, 2002	0	0	0	0	I have not been a developer.	0	0	0	0	4	4	6		Hearing others' perspective and knowledge.	Timing. Meetings are difficult to arrange sometime. The longer it takes to meet, the developer can't move forward, so we can hinder progress.	No	2	Through email	No. Sometimes comments can be given through email, or one-on-one conversations.	Use email as often as possible				A reviewer who has little or no expertise in the area can particularly help to clarify the message, especially if the product is going to practitioners who don't have much much background knowledge.	no	4	dread, mostly in relation to the time that will be required.	2	no	sedl-2-141.sedl.org 198.214.140.141
Mar 5, 2002	0	0	0	0		0	0	0	0	0	0	0					2	Notify the participants via e-mail.	Perhaps some of the review stages could be provided by submitting the comments to the group or to the head of the group.  If any questions were to come up the person in charge of the group could ask and then bring those concerns to the group developing the product.	No	At the conceptual stage of the development it would be very useful to know the parameters that the group has to deal with.	How is the product coming along, what needs to be changed and why.  Any suggestgions on how the product can be improved.		Very specific information in regards to the requirements for the development of the product.	No.  I do not know who has the expertise to do what.	7	I actually enjoyed the QA reviews when they provided information as to why things needed to be changed.  This, however, depends on who is chairing the QA process.	1	No	turquoise.dana.utexas.edu 129.116.68.172
Mar 5, 2002	4	4	4	5		3	4	3	0	0	0	0		Review from COO	Sequence of events.  Sometimes feedback has come in pieces.  Sometimes has not moved fast enough to respond to the needs of the work in the field.	Most of it has been resolved in the more recent experiences with the process.	1				General ideas about direction.	Pointing out any major concerns.	Specific feedback to strengthen the product.		yes, so that we pick people with more experience with the problem, issue being addressed.	4	Frustration	2	Keep working on improving it.  It is better than when we started.  We are all learning how to use it more effectively.	dhcp-68-165.dana.utexas.edu 129.116.68.165
Mar 8, 2002	4	2	2	4		2	3	4	It depends what you mean by useful. If you mean useful in that it helps the developers do a better job (be more creative, innovative, professional, thorough, etc.) then I would change my rating for the COO to "not at all useful." However, considering the circumstances, that the COO is the person signing off on the product, then having her feedback as soon as possible is the most "useful" thing.	2	2	5	Even though the QA process helps people become informed about other SEDL products, I've noticed in this contract that people are not taking advantage of the products that we developed in the last contract in their current work. I think the management has made no effort to make this happen. So, I am not sure that people being "informed" is having much of an impact in whether they expand their thinking about strategies for getting the work done, and it is not having an impact on whether the products are used internally or disseminated externally. 	SEDL colleagues are generally pleasant, polite, and well-intended. The external reviewers have provided excellent feedback, and that part of it has given us the opportunity to develop ties with outside people that will later help us disseminate and get the word out. Also it lends credibility to our work to have outsiders review it. The option to do reviews in an electronic format, by filling in the comments in the database or by email, has been really helpful in reducing the scheduling problem and moveing through the process quicker. The new process for assigning teams and getting the product to the reviewers (i.e. getting it to Nance/Erin, and they make copies and distribute) has been a good improvement. 	The time it robs from the production time that is needed, the COO's unpleasantness at many of the meetings, espcially when meeting together with the internal review team. The contradictory feedback that we often get from all the different reviewers. 	I think not having joint meetings (COO and QA team) is the best thing. Maybe at the very last stage it would be OK. The dinamics that occur are just not conducive to moving the work forward. I think we need to reduce the amount of overlapping feedback by having people review the product for different things. For example, the internal team reviews for format, style and appropriateness to audience, and for development process advice (if somebody in the team has had experience developing a similar product); the COO reviews for management purposes that it complies with contract requirements, that we have the budget/resources to do it, that it is moving along on schedule, that the content doesn't have any major red flags that would cause problems with OERI; and the external and maybe internal experts review it for content, does it fulfill a need, etc. (see below for further suggestions)	1	I think when the next stage comes around, the QA team could be informed but they don't have to know everything that's happening in between.	No! Why? The face-to-face meetings is where a lot of the friction and conflict occurs. I think the main point of QA is that developers get helpful feedback that will make the product better--that does not always have to happen face to face. 	I think the only time a face-to-face meeting should happen is when the QA team or the COO feel they need to talk in order to provide further clarification or explanation, after submitting the feedback electronically (database). Or if the developers feel they need clarification after receiving feedback. Also, I think if the developers would like to respond to the feedback given by the QA team or COO, but they do not want to meet, they could submit that electronically, by email, and that could also go into the QA records/documentation for that product.	General feedback about the merits of the idea and the plan of action. The review of an expert or experienced person in the field, or experienced person developing a similar product, would be important so they can provide feedback about the following: Does this idea have merits? Is it innovative, creative, does it fulfill a need out there? Is this the right way to go about doing this? Is it re-inventing the wheel? The COO's review here is also crucial because we don't want to go down a road that is not going to get approved. 	Here feedback about the document/product itself is important - format, style, content. This is where the most detailed review should happen. I think an expert review is crucial here again, to give us important feedback about content before we've gone too far.(This expert review can also be provided by somebody inside SEDL, that may be part of the QA team). The review of non-content experts would be helpful here also if they can review it for format, style, tone, if they think of themselves as the audience. Of course, again, the COO has to review it to see if it is ging down a track that will fulfill the requirements of the contract, etc.	At this stage I think, feedback is needed on the overall look of the product, and on the content, but I don't think we need editing, proofreading or design kind of feedback here. SEDL should have editors and design people in-house to do this separately (or continue to contract out, I guess).  I think at this point the review should not have to be as detailed since the feedback provided during early development should have caught a lot of the problems. At this point it's usually too late to really get into a huge amount of revision. The feedback needs to be about really glaring problems, final pass kind of feedback. 	Again, feedback as a "cold reader," as if this person was a member of the audience this is directed to. They can provide feedback on style, format, tone, general appropriateness. 	Maybe, because if there is an internal expert in the organization for a particular product, or somebody that has developed a similar product before, then that person would be ideal on the team. Why not build on the resources and strengths that we do have? Let's share our skills and resources with each other. This would build a sense of shared owndership and collaboration across the organization.	9	dread, complication, confusion about procedure, 	1	Let's keep the external review - I think this is very important. Let's leave the COO outside of the QA process - she is in a management position, not a reviewer position. She has more power, authority and ability to coerce and require change than an external reviewer or internal team. However, using the QA forms and database for us to record our interactions with her and her feedback, seems like a good improvement so maybe we can keep that part of it. I think with the internal review teams, we should have ES select a team of people that can provide content feedback, product development feedback, and "cold-reader" feedback. ES could have a list of people that could serve these different functions for the different groups of developers, and then make assignments from there. I think the conceptual stage should involve only an external expert, and the internal content expert(s) assigned (and with the COO from a management perspective). Then in the other stages, everybody could be involved. 	sedl-3-149.sedl.org 198.214.141.149
May 8, 2002	0	0	0	0		0	0	0	0	0	0	0														0				sedl-2-157.sedl.org 198.214.140.157
May 8, 2002	0	0	0	0		0	0	0	0	0	0	0														0				sedl-2-157.sedl.org 198.214.140.157
Aug 19, 2002	0	0	0	0		0	0	0	0	0	0	0														0				sedl-2-157.sedl.org 198.214.140.157
